All right guys we are in square digit sequence with my guest star Tito here.
He wants to hang out say hi.
Well go ahead and I said Buddy you can be in a video today why not.
All right.
So what we're trying to do here is we have a number that's coming into our function in this case it's
16 loops.
And what we're trying to do is we're a split up into digits.
So one in six and then we're going to square those and then we're going to get a roommate a new value
37 and we want to do this until we get a value that has been duplicated and the amount of iterations
that that takes is what we're going to return.
So you'll see here we start iteration one 16:30 750 50 89 145 for 224.
And finally we end back up with 16 that Carrick's shouldn't be there but we go for it to the second
which gets us 4 squared rather gets us to 16 again.
And so it takes nine times to get that so that is our objective.
Let's go ahead and talk about how I solved it just a little bit.
I think this might be the algorithm that I use the most method to solve this is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 I use
7 methods to solve this.
Let's go ahead and get started.
All right so we know that we're going to need to create a count variable here and we'll know how to
initialize that to 1 for this is my logic.
Normally we would initialize our counts as 0 right Lauren doing something like that.
But my logic in this instance needs to be initialized to 1.
And so will go ahead and return count and count will always be at least 1 even if we pass zero and because
it's going to take one more one iteration to figure that out.
So we're a count.
Next we're going to we don't know how many times are going to iterate.
And when you don't know how many times it's going to iterate usually tells you like hey we need to do
this either recursively or within a while loop or something like that.
And that's what we're going to do here.
So for every iteration that's in there we want to go ahead and increase count by 1.
We also are going to have a unique Gnome's array.
So it's going to create a contes unique number and we're going to initialize it with the value that
comes in.
Because that's unique No by itself.
We want to go ahead and add that value.
Now from there what we want to do is I created a function that I call a digit digit power and we're
going to define this and digit power is going to take in a number just gone home and it's going to return
a number.
And within here what it's going to do is it's going to split it into a it's going to convert that number
into a string is then going to split on each character and then it's going to map the parsed values
of the parse values that were then going to take to the second power.
Then we're going to add those numbers together and then return that number once we have that number
we're going to check to see if it's a unique value in our unique numbers if it is we're just going to
return count.
If it's not we're going to go ahead and push that new value and just keep going until we're done.
So let's go ahead and start.
So you see here I have digits digits will be equal to the number we're passing in but just to make it
into a a character trick we first have to split it on on each character like so and then we're going
to map it.
Now each element and what we want to do here is parse it as an end because we can't.
We need to parses it in in order to turn it into a number array which will then reduce.
And while we're at it we might as well just take it to the second power here.
Now once we have that we can create are some here.
And you're asking me like why didn't we do this all in one sitting.
We could have but it's sort we've sort of reached the point where typically this is I don't really want
to go more line wise.
And also it it someone delivers a point of what we're trying to do.
It's not the best example of what we do.
We could do better and all we're going to do here is reduce it into a single number again and just do
a b and b a plus be excellent.
And then we're going to return the sum.
So what we found our value multiplied and done all that.
What we're going to have here with an count is we're just going to reset the value of EOE to a new number
which will be the digit power of the AOH current value.
Now once we have that we're going to check if the unique numbers includes
Eva meaning does it already have this value.
If it does we just want to return count we're done at this point.
If it doesn't after the fact we can go ahead and take unique numbers and push a new value onto it.
And that's just going to be the age of 0 that we just returned.
That's pretty much it.
At the end of the day.
So quite a bit going on here.
And I think it is good code good sort of is much more readable when we break out this logic where we
could do a better name job naming this name and this but I do this about 10 minutes so I just knocked
it out.
So we iterate until we find a duplicate number the number we are we are turning into a string split
into a character a we then map a new array that has a the squared value that we were then parsing the
end.
And then we reduce it to a single number.
We return it.
We check if it's already in our unique number array.
No need for that spacing.
And then we if it is we return it we're done.
If it's not we add the values we continue on and we can actually take out return count here it never
gets called.
So pretty cool stuff.
That's it.
The but you don't Subodh tootle.